---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/elteveldt/"}
---

# The Fabled Land of Elteveldt
Elteveldt is a mountainous, forested land located on the lower jaw of the [[The Face of Dæra\|Face of Dæra]], south of the [[Hinterlands\|Hinterlands]], north of the [[Solemn Plains\|Solemn Plains]], and west of the [[Barrowlands\|Barrowlands]]. Elteveldt sits at a convergence of ley-lines, which makes magic of the weave potent and abundant there. The Great River flows through the land, its many streams rolling down from the surrounding mountaintops and eventually forming into one large stream which flows into the open sea to the west - the Mouth of Dæra. There is little open, plain land in Elteveldt. It's rather dense and vibrant.
## Azak Swamp
Behind the mysterious plateau of Unreach, nestled between the cliffs and the High Mountains, accessible only by a narrow mountain pass, is Azak swamp, where orcs yet dwell. Large and old willow trees rise from the wetlands, which provide a refreshing shade from the harsh sun which shines down to the swamp, the brightness of which is magnified by the water’s reflection.

In this swamp is the orcish settlement of Azak-yr. Orcs dwell all around the swamp, but mostly have collected there, for the swamp is also home to many beasts that lurk in the muddy waters. Though their homes are in the swamp, orcs frequently venture out into other parts of Elteveldt, often as merchants, and spend plenty of time around. Some even settle down. However, Azak swamp will always be a welcoming home to all orcish peoples to return to after their travels.
## Bandit's Copse
The bandit’s copse is a dangerous woodland area in Elteveldt not only for the beasts that live within, but the people, too. It is where the Fort of Hands can be found, and many hard-boiled mercenaries live in camps around the woods to keep lookout for any intruders, city guards, bounty hunters, nosy fortune seekers, or just unfortunate travelers. Passing through the bandit’s copse requires a damn good reason.
## The Crackling Cliffs
At the very south of Elteveldt, before the vast plains, a landscape of cascading cliffs rise up, stacked atop each other like a stairway for giants. At the top of these cliffs is a large volcano, which is the subject of many rumours and urban legends, none of which can be certainly claimed to be factual. Streams flow down from the cliffs into Greenlake and to the sea, carrying ash, minerals, and volcanic residue. A popular legend is that very long ago, when dragons were still the only lifeforms across the realms, the volcano was the home of golden dragons, most noble and fair of all the dragons.

These cliffs also wrap around west and north, stretching towards Arlen Andsor and wrapping around Greenlake, although in more traverseable formations. The Deijarn Library sits atop one of these cliffs, too.
## The Eastern Mountains

## Eremas, the Eternal Forest
The ancient forest of Eremas is the home of Elteveldt’s elves - they are literally born from the trees. It is easy to find one’s way into Eremas, as openings at its edges form natural gateways into it, but it’s much harder to find one’s way out. The forest is disorienting and weird to outsiders, and many unprepared travelers find themselves lost in its mesmerizing thicket. One must be sure to be wary of whom one meets in these woods. The elves of Eremas are friendly and helpful, and many people will act as guides to lost travelers. But more sinister creatures also lurk in the woods, especially the tricksy Feyfolk, whose charms have lead many adventurers permanently astray.

At the center of Eremas, where the trees wind the gnarliest and the mist sets the thickest, is Elénor, the capital city of elves. It is built at the joining point of two streams of the Great River, and ever since Skagerrach’s scourging of the land, also sits on the precipice of a huge crevasse. The city is as tall as the trees and sprawls sputteringly outwards, its architecture merely fashionings of the existing trees, rocks and land formations, rope bridges criss-crossing like a spider’s web up in the canopy. Here live not only elves, but many other peaceful magical folk, as well as some outsiders, too.

Time flows strangely in Eremas, and has done ever since Skagerrach’s scourging. The forest itself was the dragon’s main target, and it was burnt almost completely to the ground during his attack. Skagerrach was defeated, but his final blow to the forest was a devastating attack which created the great gulch which Elénor is sat on the edge of, and changed the flow of time in the forest forever. Seasons move by at different times, and the blooming and wilting of plants and the growth of trees ebbs and flows. Much of the forest’s nature is stuck in a perpetual loop of blooming and dying - the leaves in some trees, for instance, will grow, become orange, then fall to the ground before immediately growing again, all in a matter of seconds. This phenomenon has been dubbed “eternal autumn.”
Skagerrach’s attack also reshaped the forest in its entirety - 90% of the forest was burnt down, but then it grew back again from the ashes, and the process made the whole landscape more twisted and eerie than it was before, contributing to its mesmerizing and enchanting nature.

But Eremas was a place shaped by magic even before Skagerrach. It has strong connections to the feywild, and there are places around the forest - especially near the rivers - where the connection is so strong that beings can cross over. Magic flows through the forest like the rivers do, and at night the water glows blue. Druidic enclaves populate the forest, and magical creatures such as Genasi are inexplicably drawn to the woods. The forest is also alive and sentient, to some extent, as trees have been known to bend and move around, and the grass will sometimes tie itself around people’s feet. It is said that the forest grew on the back of the body of Elviathar, High Goddess of the Elves.
## Greenlake
A lake that shines green lies well-secluded from the rest of Elteveldt, almost in its own pocket between the Crackling Cliffs and the Eastern Mountains. The lake is surrounded by woods, which are home to many druids and other mostly peaceful forest-dwellers, but in its center is a small island, where the town of Grep Loch and Greenlake Mage’s College can be found. The land surrounding Greenlake is unique in Elteveldt, as it is the only larger area in the realm devoid of dangerous creatures.

Volcanic material flows down into the lake from the Crackling Cliffs, making it warm and pleasant to dip into, and also magically infused. It was the study of the magical properties of this lake which originally attracted the gnomish mages to Greenlake, and inspired them to set up their college. The water of Greenlake has certain purifying and healing properties, alleviating curses and healing physical wounds when submerged in, and additionally producing hallucinogenic effects when ingested - the mages of Greenlake claim to be able to see into different realms. It can also be used as a power source and catalyst for magical conduits - an ordinary twig soaked in the water can be used as a wand, for example. Notably, the mages of Greenlake have been very unwilling to share this water with anyone else.
## The High Mountains
The north of Elteveldt is dominated by this vast mountain range, which is home to dwarves and other mountain-dwelling folk. The mountains are tall and dangerous, and the environment is harsh and unforgiving but rich with minerals and plenty. Like the elves are born from the trees, so too are the dwarves born from the rock in the mountainside, and the mountains are dotted with dwarf-shaped holes. The mountain range is believed to be formed from the bodies of the dwarven gods, and is sacred to the dwarves.

The mountains themselves are full of twisting caves, caverns and passageways, where otherwise unseen creatures dwell in the darkness. They are so old that even the dwarves of Dordunmir don’t know half the extent of the mountains’ interior. But they are ever searching and discovering new places, as the mountains are teeming with minerals, gems, gold and magical residue in plentiful amounts.
## Unreach
The plateau of Unreach, so named as no path leads to it, is Elteveldt’s greatest mystery. Nobody knows what lies there - nobody who’s gone to find out has ever returned. The mountain path is blocked by a jagged mountain of death and the perimiter is several hundred feet of sheer cliff-face, making the plateau virtually unreachable, but that hasn’t stopped the most curious and brave adventurers from trying to find a way up, only for them to never be seen again. People steer well clear of Unreach.

The only mountain passage to the plateau is blocked by a mountain which overhangs the plateau, making it impossible to climb down. Those who have ascended the peak to try and witness the plateau from above tell of a mist-shrouded surface from which sharp peaks rise here and there, and some sort of odd structure in its centre. And sometimes, an ominous glow, so faint that one questions whether it’s even there.

There are some theories about Unreach. It was theorized that a flying creature should have no problem reaching the plateau, so the place may be home to aarakocras and the like, but attempts to reach the plateau by flying creatures, wild-shaped druids or familiars have all resulted in the creatures inexplicably running out of stamina before reaching the plateau. It is thought that dragons may have the fitness needed to fly to and from the plateau. Another theory is that it is the home of demigods and other very powerful beings, which mortals are being purposefully kept out of with magic. But no theories have any proof to be backed up.

At the foot of the cliffs is a pond which is also the headwater of a stream that eventually flows into the Great River. The pond is teeming with marine life and its water is pleasant to swim in, no matter the weather or time of year. A sense of time dilation has been observed in swimmers in the pond, as adventurers have seen their friends spend hours in the pond and claim they’ve only been in for a few minutes. Several people have drowned on nighttime swims, when they have been left unsupervised and spent several hours in the pond, all the while presumably thinking far less time has passed. Drinking the water seems to have similar temporal effects, and people who have drank it describe the experience as akin to “skipping past time.”

#lore #lands